---
layout: update
tag: Developer Update
date: 2021-03-24
author: Mike Berry
thumbnail: update-background.jpg
title: More on the Tari Console Wallet
class: subpage
---

## Tari Console Wallet

Until recently, there was a wallet to hold your testnet tXTR packaged into the Tari base node. This built-in wallet was
useful for early testing, but interacting with it only through commands was limited. There are also the much prettier mobile app wallets, where the design is aimed at simplifying the process of sending funds. The standalone console based `tari_console_wallet` allows a user more insight and advanced
features, and also provides a place for the developers to implement features quicker, among other things.

Apart from the standard wallet functions, here are some other features exposed by the `tari_console_wallet`:

### GRPC interface

The `tari_console_wallet` exposes a [gRPC interface](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/blob/development/applications/tari_app_grpc/proto/wallet.proto) for other applications, like mining pools, to interact. The two mining applications, `tari_mining_node` and `tari_merge_mining_proxy` call onto this interface to generate coinbase transactions when assembling blocks. You can also initiate transactions and query the balance or transactions via this interface.

The wallet can also be run in the background with no interface by starting it with `--daemon-mode`.

### Command mode

The `tari_console_wallet` can be used to run scripted commands using the `--command` command line argument. This allows a user to `get-balance` or `send-tari`. The development community often pushes a lot of transactions onto the network for testing using the `coin-split` and `make-it-rain` commands.

### WalletNotify

This setting can be set in the `config.toml` file as `notify` under the `wallet` section and will trigger whenever a transaction is received by the wallet.
