---
layout: update
tag: Developer Update
date: 2023-11-29
author: stringhandler   
thumbnail: update-background.jpg
title: Progress Update on Tari
subtitle: 
class: subpage
---

It's been a while since we've provided an update on the Tari Second Layer. Here are some of the features we've been working on:

# Cross Shard Transaction Reliability

Tari's implementation of Cerberus handles cross-shard transactions under the hood, but we've been investigating and trying out
various forms of reliable broadcast mechanisms to ensure that information is not lost when sent between shards. In each shard,
the committee runs Hotstuff. Hotstuff already has built-in mechanisms for detecting missing messages, but these are not available for
sending between shards. For those interested, more detail is available in the [RFC](https://github.com/tari-project/rfcs/pull/112).

# Testing Registration and Consensus on Igor

We're using the `igor` testnet to register Validator Nodes and Code Templates. At the moment we're running a single validator, but the network is open for registering and testing templates. If you would like to run a validator node, it will be less disruptive to 
other users if you don't register it for now. If you would like to help test this aspect, please let us know via Discord or Telegram.

# Awesome Tari Page

We've set up a [List of Awesome Projects on Tari](https://github.com/tari-project/awesome-tari). Are you working on something cool on Tari, feel free to add a PR with a link to it. Otherwise, if you're looking for a place to get involved, this is a good place to find a project



