---
layout: update
tag: Developer Update
date: 2023-05-05
author: stringhandler
thumbnail: update-background.jpg
title: Tari Indexer
class: subpage
---

There are three main clients on the Tari network (excluding the Minotari network clients): Validator Nodes, Wallets and Indexers. Validator nodes run transactions and agree using a flavour of Cerberus consensus
and wallets provide an interface for clients. So what role do Indexers play? 

For the Tari network to accommodate thousands of transactions per second, we have sharded the network. This means no validator node will have the entire network's data stored, and probably would not be able to even if 
it wanted to. Also, specific assets and contracts are spread across shards. If they were restricted to a single shard, then some shards would be extremely busy and bottlenecked, while others run idle. Unfortunately,
this means that if you are only interested in a single asset, your wallet would have to ask every shard for the data it has for that asset. To solve this problem, we've created an Indexer that you can run locally that
scans the shards and downloads all the data related to assets you are interested in. 

They are analogous to running a base node for the Minotari layer, providing a unified view of an asset, as though it's a dedicated blockchain.

As an example, let's say you're running a real-world coffee shop and you want to create a loyalty points system. You could create the fungible loyalty points contract on Tari using the 
[example fungible template](https://github.com/tari-project/wasm-template) and publish it to the network. Your clients can interact and store their loyalty points in Tari DAN wallets. Finally, in 
order to validate or display transactions for whatever reason, you set up a Tari Indexer node and set it up to monitor the resource and component address of your contract. 

The development of the Indexer is still very much in progress. The Tari development community is busy adding GraphQL and event scanning capabilities. If you want to try it, it's available [here](https://github.com/tari-project/tari-dan/tree/development/applications/tari_indexer)
